---
layout: post
keywords: java 
description: java
title: "java base"
categories: [java]
tags: [java,jdk,jvm]
---
{% include codepiano/setup %}

## Inheritance [1/4]

subclass
superclass
The super keyword

IS-A Relationship

## Polymorphism  [2/4]

### Virtual Methods

overridden methods /virtual method invocation

## Abstraction  [3/4]

## Encapsulation  [4/4]

* The fields of a class can be made read-only or write-only.
* A class can have total control over what is stored in its fields.

Abstract Class
Interfaces

## PECS

Producer extends and Consumer super

## Java SE

* JVM、 language、library features(API)
* JSR-->多个features/enhancements(JEPs)

primitive types

* numberic types
  * integral types
    * byte 8-bit
    * short 16-bit( from -32768 to 32767 (-2 to 2 - 1), inclusive)
    * int 32-bit
    * long 64-bit
    * char 16-bit unsigned integers(from 0 to 65535 inclusive)
  * floating-point types
    * float
    * double
    positive and negative zeros
* boolean type
  * true and false
* returnAddress type
 pointers to the opcodes of JVM instructions.
reference types

variables=变量
arguments=参数
parameters
methods=方法
constant pool
field
method data
comment : There are two kinds of comments

## Callable Future

Callable  call()

## lock and monitor – Java Concurrency

## How to work with wait(), notify() and notifyAll()

## Difference between sleep() and wait()

* wait() – Call on an object; current thread must synchronize on the lock object.
* sleep() – Call on a Thread; always currently executing thread.

## CAS Algorithm

## Thread Safety

## ThreadFactory

## CountDownLatch

## BlockingQueue

## forkjoin

The ForkJoinPool is basically a specialized implementation of ExecutorService

* java.util.Arrays class for its parallelSort() methods
* Stream.parallel()

## java14

* record
* switch
* NPE

## jdk 16

* ZGC: Concurrent Thread-Stack Processing

* Mercurial to Git？ why
* JEP 380: Unix-Domain Socket Channels

> For local, inter-process communication, Unix-domain sockets are both more secure and more efficient than TCP/IP loopback connections.

### Specification

* features
  * It requires two or more weeks of development effort to design and implement,
  * It is a significant change worthy of wide review, or
  * It is in high demand by the Java community.
* enhancements (除了features就是enhancement)

### Specification的结构

* API features,
* enhancements,
* clarifications,
* bug fixes.

* Annex 1 is the complete Java SE 14 【API Specification】
* Annex 2 is an annotated API specification showing the 【exact differences】 relative to Java SE XX(previous)
* Annex 3 The Java Language Specification and The Java Virtual Machine Specification
* Annex 4 Java Object Serialization Specification in connection with preview features in Java SE 14.

JLS Java Language Specification

### module

> 一组packages为了重用。
> 21 standard modules

* Chapter 2

> Specification Grammars

* Chapter 3

> Lexical Structure

* Chapter 4 Types, Values, and Variables

statically typed language(静态类型语言): 变量和表达式在编译时就知道了。
strongly typed language（强类型语言）

primitive types:原始类型
  boolean type
  numeric types:
    byte,
    short,
    int,
    long,
    char,
    float, # floating-point
    double
reference types:引用类型
  class types
  interface types
  array types
  type variables
null type
  can always be assigned or cast to any reference type

Floating-Point Types, Formats, and Values

* Objects
An object is a class instance or an array.

Each object is associated with a monitor, which is used by synchronized methods and the synchronized statement to provide control over concurrent access to state by multiple threads

Reifiable types

> available at run time.

Raw Types

Variables

A variable is a storage location and has an associated type, sometimes called its compile-time type, that is either a primitive type or a reference type

* a variable is cheched at compile time. but, arrays, a run-time check ia made.
* There are eight kinds of variables
  * static or an interface declaration
  * whithout using the keywork static
  * Array components
  * Method parameters
  * Constructor prameters
  * Lambda parameters
  * Exception parameter
  * Local variables

```java
class Point {
    static int numPoints;   // numPoints is a class variable
    int x, y;               // x and y are instance variables
    int[] w = new int[10];  // w[0] is an array component
    int setX(int x) {       // x is a method parameter
        int oldx = this.x;  // oldx is a local variable
        this.x = x;
        return oldx;
    } 
}
```

> the state of a object:

* final Variables

> may only be assigned to once.

## Conversions and Contexts

> * poly expression

### 5.1 Kinds of Conversion

> 类型转换Determining the Meaning of a Name
>
> * boxing conversion
> * unboxing conversion

## Names

### Declarations

* Package Names and Module Names
* Type Variable Names (E,K,V,T,X)  泛型类型
* Method Names
  verbs or verb phrases
  小写开始，驼峰
* Field Names
  nouns, noun phrases, or abbreviations for nouns.
  well-designed classes have very few public or protected fields, except for fields that are constants (static final fields).
* Constant Names
* Local Variable and Parameter Names

Names and Identifiers
Shadowing

Determining the Meaning of a Name

* ModuleName
* PackageName
* TypeName
* ExpressionName
* MethodName
* PackageOrTypeName
* AmbiguousName

Access Control

Determining Accessibility
public / protected / private

## 7 Packages and Modules

7.1 Package Members

7.2 Host Support for Modules and Packages

7.3 Compilation Units

7.4 Package Declarations

7.5 Import Declarations

## Class

members

* fields
* methods
* nested classes
* interfaces

* instance
* static initializers
* constructors

8.1 Class Declarations

final Classes

> A class can be declared final if its definition is complete and no subclasses are
desired or required.

strictfp Classes

> be explicitly FP-strict (§15.4)

8.1.3 Inner Classes and Enclosing Instances
8.1.4 Superclasses and Subclasses
8.1.5 Superinterfaces

8.2 Class Members

> Constructors, static initializers, and instance initializers are not members and therefore are not inherited.

8.3 Field Declarations
> Each declarator in a FieldDeclaration declares one field. The Identifier in a declarator may be used in a name to refer to the field.

8.3.1 Field Modifiers

* static Fields
* finalFields
* transient Fields
* volatile Fields

8.4 Method Declarations
8.4.1 Formal Parameters
8.4.2 Method Signature
8.4.3 Method Modifiers

* abstractMethods
* staticMethods
* finalMethods
* nativeMethods
* strictfpMethods
* synchronizedMethods

8.4.4 Generic Methods
8.4.5 Method Result
8.4.6 Method Throws
8.4.7 Method Body
8.4.8 Inheritance, Overriding, and Hiding
8.4.9 Overloading

8.5 Member Tye Declarations
8.6 Instance Initializers
8.7 Static Initializers
8.8 Constructor Declarations
8.9 Enum Types

## Interfaces

9.1 Interface Declarations
9.1.3 zsuperinterfaces and subinterfaces
9.2 Interface Members
9.3 Field (Constant) Declarations
9.4 Method Declarations
9.4.1 Inheritance and Overriding
9.4.2 Overloading

9.5 Member Type Declarations
9.6 Annotation Types

9.6.4 Predefined Annotation Types
9.7 Annotations
9.8 Functional Interfaces
9.9 Function Types

## Arrays

10.1 Array Types
10.2 Array Variables
10.3 Array Creation
10.4 Array Access
10.5 Array Store Exception
10.6 Array Initializers
10.7 Array Members
10.8 Class Objects for Arrays
10.9 An Array of Characters Is Not a String

## Exceptions

## cache

### spring CacheManager

Cache vs Buffer

## DI

* Dependencies

## Testing

* Unit Testing
* Mock Objects

[Java inheritance](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/java/java_inheritance.htm)
[Dependencies](https://docs.spring.io/spring-framework/docs/current/reference/html/core.html#beans-dependencies)
[spring](https://spring.io/projects/spring-framework#overview)
[spring cache](https://docs.spring.io/spring-framework/docs/4.3.x/spring-framework-reference/html/cache.html)
[Spring testing](https://docs.spring.io/spring-framework/docs/current/reference/html/testing.html)
[LTS](https://www.javacodegeeks.com/2019/07/long-term-support-mean-openjdk.html)
[Module](https://openjdk.java.net/jeps/11)
[http2 client](https://openjdk.java.net/jeps/110)
[Spring Boot Classloader and Class Overriding](https://dzone.com/articles/spring-boot-classloader-and-class-override)
[JSR-000391 Java SE 16 - Public Review](https://download.oracle.com/otndocs/jcp/java_se-16-pr-spec/index.html)
[java-se-16-jvms-pr-diffs]
[executor-service](https://www.baeldung.com/java-executor-service-tutorial)
[executor-framework](https://howtodoinjava.com/java/multi-threading/executor-framework-tutorial/)
[forkjoin-framework](https://howtodoinjava.com/java7/forkjoin-framework-tutorial-forkjoinpool-example/)
[jdk 16](http://openjdk.java.net/projects/jdk/16/)