---
layout: post
keywords: paper 
description: paper
title: "paper"
categories: [paper]
tags: [paper,algorithm]
---
{% include codepiano/setup %}

## NLP

* ColBERT-Efficient and Effective Pasage Search via Contextualized Late Interaction over BERT 2004.12832

embeding
representation
attention

* Highly accurate protein structure prediction with AlphaFold
* Accurate prediction of protein structures and interactions using a three-track neural network

* RoseTTAFold

## Scheduling

Borg, Omega, and Kubernetes

* Application environment

> * Containers as the unit of management

An Overview of Openstack Architecture

Orchestration is the beginning, not the end

ReplicationController
DaemonSet
Job

Don’t make the container system manage port numbers
Don’t just number containers: give them labels
Be careful with ownership
Don’t expose raw state

2.1 Computing
Nova:
Glance: It’s the Openstack Image service
2.2 Networking
Neutron:
2.3 Storing
Swift:
Cinder:
2.4 Shared Services
Keystone:
Horizon:
Ceilometer:
2.5 Supporting Services
Database:
Advanced Message Queue Protocol:

Large-scale cluster management at Google with Borg

> hundreds of thousands of jobs, from many thousands of differ- ent applications, across a number of clusters each with up to tens of thousands of machines.
(1) hides the details of resource management and failure handling so its users can focus on application development instead;
(2) operates with very high reliability and availability, and supports applica- tions that do the same;
(3) lets us run workloads across tens of thousands of machines effectively.

minimize fault-recovery time
scheduling policies that reduce the probability of correlated failures

workload

* long-running
* batch jobs(short-term)

> MapReduce system [23], FlumeJava [18], Millwheel [3], and Pregel [59]

Constraints can be hard or soft;
resource requirements

2.5 Priority, quota, and admission control
2.6 Naming and monitoring

3 Borg architecture
3.1 Borgmaster
3.2 Scheduling
> resource manager and scheduling
3.3 Borglet
3.4 Scalability

4 Availability
5 Utilization

Omega: flexible, scalable schedulers for large compute clusters  调度器扩展

> * 并行parallelism
> * 共享状态 shared state (集群中的所有资源，相对于资源分组给不同的调度器)
> * 无锁的乐观并行控制

monolithic cluster scheduler architectures. 整体的；巨石的，庞大的；完全统一的
集群的增大，使调度器更加复杂，也容易遇到调度器瓶颈
双层调度器，资源管理器保证并行的数据一致性,  Mesos [13] and Hadoop-on-Demand [4]

Omega: shared state, using lock-free optimistic concurrency control
需求

* 利用率要高（high resource utilization）
* 用户要求的约束（user-supplied placement constraints）
* 快速决策 （rapid decision making）
* 各种级别的公平性 （various degrees of “fairness” ）
* 商业重要性 （business importance）
* 健壮性和可用性

混布(batch and low-latency jobs)
问题：增加了复杂度

types of jobs,
flexibly support job-specific policies,
scale to an ever-growing amount of scheduling work

pessimistic approach: a particular resource is only made available to one scheduler at a time
optimistic approach: detects the (hopefully rare) conflicts, and undoes one or more of the conflicting claims. The optimistic approach increases parallelism, but potentially increases the amount of wasted scheduling work if conflicts occur too frequently.

* Naming and service discovery
* Master election, using Chubby
* Application-aware load balancing

### Two-level scheduling

Mesos [13] and Hadoop-on-Demand (HOD)  YARN

### Mesos

* 支持不同的调度器，希望做得更加通用。

### Hawk

* 中心调度，调度长运行时的服务
* 分布式调度，调度短时任务
* Splitting the cluster
* 预留专有的少量服务器跑short tasks; long tasks被调度到其他大量的服务器上；short tasks可以被调度到所有服务器上
* Randomized task stealing

> Hawk uses task stealing as a run-time mechanism aimed at mitigating some of the delays caused by the occasion- ally suboptimal, distributed scheduling decisions.

* Scheduling long jobs

* Overall results on the Google trace

* conclusions
* 高负责集群
* 多样的workloads
* 主要是短时jobs
* 少量的长时jobs

### 2013-Apache Hadoop YARN- Yet Another Resource Negotiator


### Shared-state scheduling

Omega

There is no central resource allocator in Omega

Each scheduler is given a private, local, frequently-updated copy of cell state that it uses for making scheduling decisions.

50–70% of MapRe- duce jobs can benefit from acceleration using opportunistic resources

Apache Mesos
YARN [76] V. K. Vavilapalli, A. C. Murthy, C. Douglas, S. Agarwal, M. Konar, R. Evans, T. Graves, J. Lowe, H. Shah, S. Seth, B. Saha, C. Curino, O. O’Malley, S. Radia, B. Reed, and E. Baldeschwieler. Apache Hadoop YARN: Yet Another Resource Negotiator. In Proc. ACM Symp. on Cloud Computing (SoCC), Santa Clara, CA, USA, 2013.
Facebook’s Tupperware
Microsoft’s Apollo system [13] E. Boutin, J. Ekanayake, W. Lin, B. Shi, J. Zhou, Z. Qian, M. Wu, and L. Zhou. Apollo: scalable and coordinated scheduling for cloud-scale computing. In Proc. USENIX Symp. on Operating Systems Design and Implementation (OSDI), Oct. 2014.

---
Transformer
GPT-3 (1750亿参数)
OpenAI
万亿级的参数
稀疏化、
多模态  多模态预训练

---
Attention Is All You Need

Scaled Dot-Product Attention
Multi-Head Attention

Embeddings and Softmax
Positional Encoding

Why Self-Attention

Machine Translation
Model Variations

Rearchitecting Kubernetes for the Edge

algorithms

dynamic placement for clustered web applications

---
travelling salesman problem(TSP)
vehicle routing problem(VRP)
theory of computational complexity 复杂性理论
combinatorial optimization
NP-complete problem
NP-hard problem
optimal control problem  最佳控制问题
integer linear program 整数线性规划

### Online Service Placement and Request Scheduling in MEC Networks

Methodology and Contributions

* Online Framework
* Regularization with look-Ahead Algorithm
* Rounding Algorithm
* Evaluation Results

### On the Measure of Intelligence

define and evaluate intelligence in a way that enables comparisons between two systems

I Context and history
I.1 Need for an actionable definition and measure of intelligence
I.2 Definingintelligence:twodivergentvisions
I.3 AI evaluation: from measuring skills to measuring broad abilities

A new perspective
II.1 Criticalassessment
II.2 Definingintelligence:aformalsynthesis
II.3 Evaluatingintelligenceinthislight
II.3.1 Fair comparisons between intelligent systems
II.3.2 What to expect of an ideal intelligence benchmark

III A benchmark proposal: the ARC dataset
III.1 Descriptionandgoals
III.1.2 Core Knowledge priors
III.2 Weaknesses and future refinements
II.3 Evaluatingintelligenceinthislight

### Akamai DNS: Providing Authoritative Answers to the World’s Queries

two types of systems

* The client-side system pri- marily consists of recursive resolvers that are charged with resolving queries from end-users.
* The authoritative system is organized hierarchically in accor- dance with the name hierarchy. 

Akamai DNS
> architecture, algorithms, design principles, and operation

Authoritative DNS Services(3)

* hosting service (ADHS) that allows enterprises to host their DNS domains on Akamai.
* global traffic management (GTM) that allows DNS-based load-balancing among server deployments owned by an enterprise.
* Akamai DNS is a component of Akamai’s CDN service, serving 15-20% of all web traffic

> DNS hosting for their domains, GTM for their datacenters, and CDN services for edge delivery of their content fetched from those datacenters.

Akamai DNS is architected to be resilient to both failures and attacks.
Akamai DNS is architected for both scalability and performance.
Akamai DNS is architected for rapid reconfigurability.(Unlike traditional authoritative DNS whose translations remain relatively static)

3.9M to 5.6M queries per second (qps)

SYSTEM ARCHITECTURE

* Authoritative Nameservers

> * Cloudflare 1.1.1.1 Public Recursive Resolver
> * Google Public DNS. (2019). Retrieved June 2019 from https://developers.google.com/speed/public-dns/
> * Quad9 DNS Service. (2019). Retrieved June 2019 from https://www.quad9.net/ 

resolvers and the authoritative nameservers.

4 RESILIENCY

* 4.1 Anycast Failover Mechanism
* 4.2 Failure Resiliency
* 4.2.1 Machine-Level Failures
* 4.2.2 Stale State.
* 4.2.3 Input-induced Failure. 
* 4.3 Attack Resiliency
* 4.3.4 Attack Scenarios and their Mitigations. 

> * saturate the available bandwidth
> * send DNS queries directly to consume compute or bandwidth resource
> * Random Subdomain 随机子域名查询，较低前面解析器的命中率，直接透传到权威服务器上
> * Spoofed Source IP
> * Spoofed Source IP & IP TTL

legitimate queries 合法的
suspicious queries 可疑的

5 DNS PERFORMANCE

* 5.1 Anycast Performance Tuning
* 5.2 Two-Tier Delegation System

Two-Tier can reduce resolution time in most situations over Akamai’s single-tier of toplevels.

6 RELATED WORK

7 CONCLUDING REMARKS

 the key design principles that underlie the ar- chitecture of Akamai DNS

* (i) Avoid single points of failure (§4.3.1)
* (ii) Use general mitigation strategies for failure modes rather than specific point solutions, as such strategies potentially also cover unanticipated failure modes (§4.2),
* (iii) Under widespread failure, continue to operate in a degraded state as the alternative is not operating at all (§4.2.1),
* (iv) Build in contingencies for even extremely unlikely but high impact scenarios, so that Akamai DNS is always available (§4.2.3, §4.2.4),
* (v) Avoid actively reacting to an attack – instead rely upon automated mitigations – until action becomes absolutely necessary (§4.3.2).

## links

https://www.bmc.com/blogs/machine-learning-ai-frameworks/
https://blog.dominodatalab.com/choosing-the-right-machine-learning-framework/
https://blog.google/products/search/search-language-understanding-bert/
https://www.zhihu.com/question/68482809
https://mwhittaker.github.io/papers/html/burns2016borg.html
https://www.nextplatform.com/2015/05/05/google-omega-to-become-part-of-borg-collective/
[Online Service Placement and Request Scheduling in MEC Networks](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2108.11633.pdf)
[On the Measure of Intelligence](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1911.01547.pdf)
[NIPS 2021](https://openreview.net/submissions?venue=NeurIPS.cc)
[What is Anycast? | How does Anycast work?](https://www.cloudflare.com/zh-cn/learning/cdn/glossary/anycast-network/)
[Joint Heterogeneous Server Placement and Application Configuration in Edge Computing]()
[10] Apollo: Scalable and Coordinated Scheduling for Cloud-Scale Computing  This paper is included in the Proceedings of the 11th USENIX Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation. October 6–8, 2014 • Broomfield, CO 978-1-931971-16-4 OSDI 11th
[11] Mesos- A Platform for Fine-Grained Resource Sharing in the Data Center
[12] 2015atc_Hawk-Hybrid Datacenter Scheduling
